{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 Raleway;}{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 inherit;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red68\green68\blue68;\red2\green116\blue190;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://themerkle.com/what-are-ethereum-uncles/"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 What}}{\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3  are Ethereum Uncles}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3
\par\plain {\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://themerkle.com/what-are-ethereum-uncles/"}{\fldrslt\f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3 https://themerkle.com/what-are-ethereum-uncles/}}
\par\plain \f0\fs24\ul\ulc0\cf3
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 an uncle is a referred to as a network block which would normally be considered an orphan.  Uncles work in a similar way, but there is a major difference between bitcoin orphan and ethereum uncle}
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 Ethereum miners are incentivized to include uncles everytime a block is mined.}
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 Bitcoin does not offer an incentive for including orphaned blocks.}
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 Reasons:}
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 1. decreases decentralization in Ethereum mining. Like it or not, but cryptocurrency mining is often a very centralized activity. Even though there are many different mining pools to choose from, centralization is still present}
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 Rewarding miners for producing uncles is an interesting incentive. Not everyone wants to mine at a large pool, and this move effectively promotes solo mining to a certain degree. It is also an incentive to join smaller mining pools, as uncles will still yield some form of reward. Any miner who is not part of a big pool often has to deal with slight network delays when new blocks are discovered. In some cases, uncles can be discovered with a split second off the official block being mined.}
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain {\f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2 2. \~increasing overall Ethereum chain security.}
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\plain \f1\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4\cb2\highlight2
\par\pard\plain \sa400\ltrch\loch {\f2\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4 Uncles are still subject to the same mining work as conducted to mine the main chain blocks. This approach results in wasting less computing resources on stale blocks, which can only be beneficial for the network as a whole. Do keep in mind including uncles also creates a bit more\~}{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "https://themerkle.com/what-is-blockchain-bloat/"}{\fldrslt\f2\fs-2\b0\i0\cf5 blockchain \loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8220\'93bloat}}{\f2\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4 ,\loch\af2\hich\af2\dbch\af2\uc1\u8221\'94\~which is becoming somewhat of a recent issue with\~Ethereum.}
\par\plain {\f2\fs-2\b0\i0\cf4 One big potential issue with this uncle system is how it can create incentives for miners -or even pools- to mine empty blocks. As we have seen on the Bitcoin network, mining empty blocks serves no real purpose whatsoever. An empty uncle block would make no real sense either, yet there is a reward associated with it. So far, it does not appear anyone is purposefully mining empty uncle blocks, but that situation may come to change over time. The whole concept is still very interesting.}}