{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPSMT;}{\f1\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq2 CourierNewPS-BoldMT;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\fet2\ftnbj\aenddoc
\pgnrestart\pgnstarts0
\pard\plain \ltrch\loch {\f1\fs36\b1 How to store data on ethereum blockchain}
\par\plain \f1\fs36\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 The data on Ethereum Blockchain is stored using tire data structures. Before going ahead, we would like you to know that it is completely sensible that permanent data like mined transaction and temporary data like account balance should be stored separately. Ethereum makes use of this trie data structure to manage temporary and permanent data. We can say that Etherum is like a bank.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 Only after a transaction is confirmed, then it is recorded in the transaction trie. Ephemeral or temporary data like account address is stored in the state trie, and it changes and gets updated. Thus it makes complete sense to keep both temporary and permanent should be stored separately and hence we have three tries for managing and storing data.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 There three types of the trie in the Ethereum Blockchain:}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 State Trie}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 Storage Trie}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 And Transaction Trie}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs36\b1 Storage trie}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 As the name itself indicates, storage trie is where the contract data is present. Every ethereum account has its storage trie. 256-bit hash of the storage trie\loch\af1\hich\af1\dbch\af1\uc1\u8217\'92s root node is stored in the global state trie as storageRoot.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs36\b1 Transaction trie}
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 Every Ethereum block has its transaction trie. Every block contains transactions. The order of the transaction present in every block is based on the course of addition of transaction to the block. The position of the block never changes, the path of a particular transaction is via the index of where the transaction sits in the block. In simple words, it means, that you can locate transaction you can go back on the same path again and again and get the same result.}
\par\plain \f1\fs24\b1
\par\plain {\f1\fs24\b1 An important point to note here is that data like account balance are not stores directly in the blocks. Only the root node hashes of the transaction trie, recept trie and state tries are stored in the Blockchain.}}